Effective 22 May 2024 | Archived versions | Download PDF
Country version: France
These Terms of Service reflect the way that Google’s business works, the laws that apply to our company, and certain things that we’ve always believed to be true. As a result, these Terms of Service help define Google’s relationship with you as you interact with our services. For example, these terms include the following topic headings:
Understanding these terms is important because, to use our services, you must accept these terms. We encourage you to download these terms for future reference. We make these terms, and all previous versions, available at all times here.
Besides these terms, we also publish a Privacy Policy. Although it’s not part of these terms, we encourage you to read it to better understand how you can update, manage, export and delete your information.
In the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland, Google services are provided by, and you’re contracting with:
Google Ireland Limited
incorporated and operating under the laws of Ireland
(Registration number: 368047/VAT number: IE6388047V)

Gordon House, Barrow Street
Dublin 4
Ireland
If you’re under the age required to manage your own Google Account, you must have your parent or legal guardian’s permission to use a Google Account. Please ask your parent or legal guardian to read these terms with you.
If you’re a parent or legal guardian, and you allow your child to use the services, then these terms apply to you and you’re responsible for your child’s activity on the services.
Some Google services have additional age requirements as described in their service-specific additional terms and policies.
These terms help define the relationship between you and Google. When we speak of 'Google', 'we', 'us' and 'our', we mean Google Ireland Limited and its affiliates.
Broadly speaking, we give you permission to access and use our services if you agree to follow these terms, which reflect how Google's business works. We make a lot of our products, like Search, Maps and Gmail, accessible and free of charge to everyone. Advertising is what makes it possible to offer our products to everyone. We make money selling ad space to businesses, and we use your data to show ads that are useful to you, according to your settings. When we show ads, we give you transparency and controls so that you can make informed decisions, e.g. about the information about you that's used to show ads. We also use your personal information to make our products more helpful to you (for example, this is how we can auto-complete your searches, get you home faster with Maps etc.). To learn more, see how Google's business works.
Many of these services also include content that you can stream or interact with.
Our services are designed to work together, making it easier for you to move from one activity to the next. For example, if your Calendar event includes an address, you can click on that address and Maps can show you how to get there.
While we use a broad definition of 'services' throughout these terms as described above, applicable law draws distinctions between 'digital content', 'services' and 'goods' in certain situations. That’s why we use the more specific terms in this section and the Legal guarantee section.
We’re constantly developing new technologies and features to improve our services. For example, we use artificial intelligence and machine learning to provide you with simultaneous translations and to better detect and block spam and malware.
As part of the continual evolution of our digital content, services and goods, we make modifications, such as adding or removing features and functionalities, increasing or decreasing usage limits, and offering new digital content or services or discontinuing old ones. We may also change our digital content, services or goods for these other reasons:
In particular, we sometimes make legally-required updates, which are modifications that keep digital content, services or goods in conformity with the law. We make these updates to our digital content, services and goods for safety or security reasons and to make sure that they meet the quality standards that you expect, such as those described in the Legal guarantee section. We may automatically install updates that address significant safety or security risks. For other updates, you can choose whether you want them installed.
We maintain a rigorous product research programme, so before we change or stop offering a service, we carefully consider your interests as a user, your reasonable expectations, and the potential impact on you and others. We only change or stop offering services for valid reasons.
If a modification negatively affects your ability to access or use our digital content, services or goods, or if we stop offering a service all together, we'll provide you with reasonable advance notice by email – including a description of the changes, when they'll take place, and your right to end your contract with us if our modifications create more than a minor negative impact – except in urgent situations such as preventing abuse or harm, responding to legal requirements, or addressing security and operability issues. We'll also provide you with an opportunity to export your content from your Google Account using Google Takeout, subject to applicable law and policies.
You can view, copy and store these terms in PDF format. You can accept these terms and any service-specific additional terms when you’re signed in to your Google Account.
We also make various policies, help centres and other resources available to you to answer common questions and to set expectations about using our services. These resources include our Privacy Policy, Copyright Help Centre, Safety Centre, Transparency Centre, and other pages accessible from our policies site. Finally, we may provide specific instructions and warnings within our services – such as dialogue boxes that alert you to important information.
Although we give you permission to use our services, we retain any intellectual property rights that we have in the services.
Our service-specific additional terms and policies, such as our Generative AI Prohibited Use Policy, provide additional details about appropriate conduct that everyone using those services must follow. If you find that others aren't following these rules, many of our services allow you to report abuse. If we act on a report of abuse, we also provide the process described in the Taking action in case of problems section.
Most people who access or use our services understand the general rules that keep the Internet safe and open. Unfortunately, a small number of people don't respect those rules, so we're describing them here to protect our services and users from abuse. In that spirit:
Some of our services are designed to let you upload, submit, store, send, receive or share your content. You have no obligation to provide any content to our services and you’re free to choose the content that you want to provide. If you choose to upload or share content, please make sure that you have the necessary rights to do so and that the content is lawful.
Your content may be protected by intellectual property rights and 'droits immatériel'. For example, you have intellectual property rights in the creative content that you make, such as reviews that you write. Or you may have the right to share someone else’s creative content if they’ve given you their permission. In addition, you have 'droits immatériel' that give you control over things like your image, even if the photo that contains your image doesn’t belong to you.
Through this licence, you provide Google with permission to use your intellectual property rights in your content (such as copyright and trademark) and any 'droits immatériel' in your content (such as image rights).
This licence covers your content if that content is protected by intellectual property rights or 'droits immatériel'.
This licence allows Google to:
This licence is for the limited purpose of:
This licence lasts for as long as your content is protected by intellectual property rights or 'droits immatériel'.
If you remove from our services any content that’s covered by this licence, our systems will stop making that content publicly available in a reasonable amount of time. There are two exceptions:
If you meet these age requirements, you can create a Google Account for your convenience. Some services require that you have a Google Account in order to work – for example, to use Gmail, you need a Google Account so that you have a place to send and receive your email.
You’re responsible for what you do with your Google Account, including taking reasonable steps to keep your Google Account secure, and we encourage you to regularly use the Security Check-Up.
To provide you with our services, we sometimes send you service announcements and other information. To learn more about how we communicate with you, see Google’s Privacy Policy.
If you choose to give us feedback, such as suggestions to improve our services, we may act on your feedback without obligation to you.
Some of our services allow you to generate original content. Google won't claim ownership over that content.
Some of our services give you the opportunity to make your content publicly available – for example, you might post a product or restaurant review that you wrote, or you might upload a blog post that you created.
If you think that someone is infringing your intellectual property rights, you can send us notice of the infringement and we’ll take appropriate action. For example, we suspend or close the Google Accounts of repeat copyright infringers as described in our Copyright Help Centre.
Some of our services include content that belongs to Google – for example, many of the visual illustrations that you see in Google Maps. You may use Google’s content as allowed by these terms and any service-specific additional terms, but we retain any intellectual property rights that we have in our content. Don’t remove, obscure or alter any of our branding, logos or legal notices. If you want to use our branding or logos, please see the Google Brand Permissions page.
Finally, some of our services give you access to content that belongs to other people or organisations – for example, a store owner’s description of their own business, or a newspaper article displayed in Google News. You may not use this content without that person or organisation’s permission, or as otherwise allowed by law. The views expressed in the content of other people or organisations are their own, and don’t necessarily reflect Google’s views.
Some of our services include downloadable or preloaded software. We give you permission to use that software as part of the services.
Some of our services include software that’s offered under open-source licence terms that we make available to you. Sometimes there are provisions in the open-source licence that explicitly override parts of these terms, so please make sure that you read those licences.
You may not copy, modify, distribute, sell or lease any part of our services or software.
Both the law and these terms give you the right to (1) a certain quality of service and (2) ways to fix problems if things go wrong. If you’re a consumer, then you enjoy all legal rights granted to consumers under applicable law, as well as any additional rights provided under these terms or service-specific additional terms.
As a consumer, you benefit from a legal guarantee of conformity on your goods, as well as a legal guarantee for hidden defects of the goods, under the conditions defined below.
In the event of lack of conformity, the consumer has a period of two years from the date of delivery of the goods to enforce the legal conformity guarantee. During this period, the consumer is only required to establish the existence of the lack of conformity and not the date of its appearance.
If the contract for the sale of the goods provides for the supply of digital content or a digital service on a continuous basis for a period of more than two years, the legal guarantee shall apply to that digital content or digital service throughout the period of supply. During this period, the consumer is only required to establish the existence of the digital content or service lack of conformity and not the date of its appearance.
Under the legal conformity guarantee, the trader is liable, if applicable, for providing all the updates necessary to maintain the conformity of the goods.
The legal guarantee of conformity gives the consumer the right to repair or replace the goods within thirty days of his/her request, free of charge and without major inconvenience to him/her.
If the goods are repaired under the legal conformity guarantee, the consumer benefits from a six-month term extension of the initial guarantee. If the consumer asks for the good to be repaired, but the trader imposes a replacement, the legal conformity guarantee is renewed for a period of two years from the date of replacement of the good.
The consumer is also entitled to a price reduction or rescission of the contract where the lack of conformity is so serious as to justify immediate price reduction or rescission of the contract. The consumer is then not required to request repair or replacement of the goods beforehand.
The consumer is not entitled to rescission of the contract if the lack of conformity is minor.
Any period of immobilisation of the goods for the purpose of repair or replacement shall suspend the remaining guarantee term until the delivery of the repaired goods.
The rights mentioned above result from the application of Articles L. 217-1 to L. 217-32 of the French Consumer Code.
A seller who obstructs in bad faith the implementation of the legal conformity guarantee is liable to a civil fine of up to EUR 300,000, which may be increased to 10% of its average annual turnover (Article L. 241-5 of the French Consumer Code).
The consumer also benefits from the legal guarantee for hidden defects in application of articles 1641 to 1649 of the French Civil Code, for a period of two years from the discovery of the defect. This guarantee gives the consumer the right to a price reduction if the good is kept or to a full refund against return of the good.
As a consumer, you benefit from a legal guarantee of conformity and a legal guarantee for hidden defects on your digital content or service.
Where the digital content or service is provided on a one-off basis: in the event of a lack of conformity, the consumer has a period of two (2) years from the date of supply of the digital content or service to obtain the implementation of the legal guarantee of conformity. During a period of one (1) year from the date of supply, the consumer is only required to establish the existence of the lack of conformity and not the date of its appearance.
The legal guarantee of conformity implies the obligation to provide all updates necessary to maintain the conformity of the digital content or service.
If the digital content or service is provided on a continuous basis: you have the right to enforce the legal guarantee of conformity in the event of the appearance of a lack of conformity during the entire period of supply of the digital content or service according to the contract, from the beginning of the supply of the digital content or service. During this period, the consumer is only required to establish the existence of the lack of conformity and not the date of its appearance.
The legal guarantee of conformity implies the obligation to provide all updates necessary to maintain the conformity of the digital content or service during the entire period of supply of the digital content or service according to the contract.
The legal guarantee of conformity gives the consumer the right to have the digital content or service brought into conformity without undue delay following his/her request, free of charge and without major inconvenience to him/her.
The consumer is also entitled to a price reduction or rescission of the contract where the lack of conformity is so serious as to justify immediate price reduction or rescission of the contract. The consumer is then not obliged to ask for the digital content or service to be brought into conformity beforehand.
In cases where the lack of conformity is minor, the consumer has the right to rescind the contract only if the contract does not provide for payment of a price.
Any period of unavailability of the digital content or service in order to bring it into conformity shall suspend the remaining guarantee period until the digital content or service is supplied in conformity again.
The rights mentioned above result from the application of articles L. 224-25-1 to L. 224-25-31 of the French Consumer Code.
A trader who obstructs the implementation of the legal guarantee of conformity in bad faith is liable to a civil fine of up to EUR 300,000, which may be increased to 10% of the average annual turnover (Article L. 242-18-1 of the French Consumer Code).
The consumer also benefits from the legal guarantee for hidden defects in application of articles 1641 to 1649 of the French Civil Code, for a period of two (2) years from the discovery of the defect. This guarantee entitles the consumer to a price reduction if the digital content or service is kept or to a full refund in exchange for the waiver of the digital content or service.
Your rights under these legal guarantees aren't limited by any other commercial guarantees that we may provide for specific digital content, services or goods (like the Google Consumer Hardware Limited Warranty, which is not applicable to purchase in France). If you want to make a guarantee claim, please contact us.
Other than the liabilities described above, Google is liable only for its breaches of these terms or applicable service-specific additional terms, subject to applicable law.
If you’re a business user or organisation:
Before taking action as described below, we'll provide you with advance notice when reasonably possible, describe the reason for our action and give you an opportunity to clarify the issue and address it, unless there are objective and concrete reasons to believe that doing so would:
If there are objective and concrete reasons to believe that any of your content (1) breaches these terms, service-specific additional terms or policies, (2) violates applicable law, or (3) could harm our users, third parties or Google, then we reserve the right to take down some or all of that content in accordance with applicable law. Examples include notably child pornography, content that facilitates human trafficking or harassment, terrorist content and content that infringes someone else’s intellectual property rights.
Without limiting any of our other rights, Google may suspend or terminate your access to the services or delete your Google Account if any of these things happen:
For more information about why we disable accounts and what happens when we do, see this Help Centre page. If you believe that your Google Account has been suspended or terminated in error, you can appeal.
Of course, you’re always free to stop using our services at any time. If you’re an EEA-based consumer, you can also withdraw from these terms within 14 days of accepting them. If you do stop using a service, we’d appreciate knowing why so that we can continue improving our services.
Respect for the privacy and security of your data underpins our approach to responding to data disclosure requests. When we receive data disclosure requests, our team reviews them to make sure that they satisfy legal requirements and Google's data disclosure policies. Google Ireland Limited accesses and discloses data, including communications, in accordance with the laws of Ireland and EU law applicable in Ireland. For more information about the data disclosure requests that Google receives worldwide, and how we respond to such requests, see our Transparency Report and Privacy Policy.
For information about how to contact Google, please visit our contact page.
If you’re a resident of, or an organisation based in the European Economic Area (EEA) or Switzerland, these terms and your relationship with Google under these terms and service-specific additional terms, are governed by the laws of your country of residence, and you can file legal disputes in your local courts. If you’re an EEA-based consumer, please contact us to resolve issues directly. The European Commission also offers an Online Dispute Resolution platform, which we accept if required by law.
By law, you have certain rights that can’t be limited by a contract like these Terms of Service. These terms are in no way intended to restrict those rights.
We want to make these terms easy to understand, so we’ve used examples from our services. But not all the services mentioned may be available in your country.
We may update these terms and service-specific additional terms (1) to reflect changes in our services or how we do business – for example, when we add new services, features, technologies, pricing or benefits (or remove old ones), (2) for legal, regulatory or security reasons or (3) to prevent abuse or harm.
If we update these terms or service-specific additional terms, we'll provide you with at least 30 days' advance notice (by email or other appropriate means) and the opportunity to review and accept the changes, except if we are required by law to apply the changes immediately without waiting for the end of the notice period. If you don't agree to the new terms, you should remove your content and stop using the services. You can also end your relationship with us at any time, without penalty, by closing your Google Account.
If you're an EEA-based consumer, then EEA consumer law gives you the right to withdraw from this contract as described in the EU's Model Instructions on Withdrawal, provided below.
You have the right to withdraw from this contract within 14 days without giving any reason.
The withdrawal period will expire after 14 days from the day of the conclusion of the contract.
To exercise the right of withdrawal, you must inform us of your decision to withdraw from this contract by an unequivocal statement (e.g. a letter sent by post or email). You can contact us by email at account-withdrawal@google.com; by phone +353 1 533 9837 (see below for country-specific telephone numbers); or by writing to us at Google Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland. You may use the attached model withdrawal form, but it is not obligatory. You can also electronically fill in and submit the model withdrawal form or any other unequivocal statement on our website (g.co/EEAWithdrawalForm). If you use this option, we will send you an acknowledgement of receipt of such a withdrawal on a durable medium (e.g. by email) without delay.
To meet the withdrawal deadline, it is sufficient for you to send your communication concerning your exercise of the right of withdrawal before the withdrawal period has expired.
If you withdraw from this contract, we shall reimburse to you all payments received from you, including the costs of delivery (with the exception of the supplementary costs resulting from your choice of a type of delivery other than the least expensive type of standard delivery offered by us), without undue delay and in any event not later than 14 days from the day on which we are informed about your decision to withdraw from this contract. We will carry out such reimbursement using the same means of payment as you used for the initial transaction, unless you have expressly agreed otherwise; in any event, you will not incur any fees as a result of such reimbursement.
(complete and return this form only if you wish to withdraw from the contract)
− To Google Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland, account-withdrawal@google.com:
− I hereby give notice that I withdraw from my contract of sale for the provision of the following service, _____________
— Ordered on, _____________
— Name of consumer, _____________
— Address of consumer, _____________
— Signature of consumer (only if this form is notified on paper), _____________
− Date _____________
As protected by French law, rights other than intellectual property rights and data protection rights related to your content, such as your right to authorise the use of your own image in photos or videos, even if the photo or video doesn’t belong to you.
An entity that belongs to the Google group of companies, which means Google LLC and its subsidiaries, including the following companies that provide consumer services in the EU: Google Ireland Limited, Google Commerce Limited and Google Dialer Inc.
An individual or entity who is not a consumer (see consumer).
A commercial guarantee is a voluntary commitment that is in addition to the legal guarantee of conformity. The company offering the commercial guarantee agrees to (a) provide certain services; or (b) repair, replace or refund the consumer for defective items.
An individual who uses Google services for personal, non-commercial purposes outside of their trade, business, craft or profession. This includes 'consumers' as defined in Article 2.1 of the EU consumer rights directive. (See business user)
A legal right that allows the creator of an original work (such as a blog post, photo or video) to decide if and how that original work may be used by others, subject to certain limitations and exceptions.
We associate your Google Account with a country (or territory) so that we can determine:
You’re currently viewing the Terms of Service for users in France, but the country associated with your account is Nigeria and the terms for Nigeria are here. If you think that the country associated with your account is incorrect, you can learn more and contact us.
A statement that limits someone’s legal responsibilities.
The Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 on promoting fairness and transparency for business users of online intermediation services.
An individual or organisation’s contractual obligation to compensate the losses suffered by another individual or organisation from legal proceedings such as lawsuits.
Rights over the creations of a person’s mind, such as inventions (patent rights); literary and artistic works (copyright); designs (design rights), and symbols, names and images used in commerce (trademarks). IP rights may belong to you, another individual or an organisation.
A legal concept that defines the difference between how something should work and how it actually works. Under the law, how something should work is based on how the seller or trader describes it, whether its quality and performance are satisfactory and its fitness for the usual purpose of such items.
A legal guarantee is a requirement under the law that a seller or trader is liable if their digital content, services or goods are defective (that is, that they lack conformity or have hidden defects).
Losses from any type of legal claim, whether the claim is based on a contract, tort (including negligence) or other reason, and whether or not those losses could have been reasonably anticipated or foreseen.
A legal entity (such as a corporation, non-profit or school) and not an individual person.
The Google services that are subject to these terms are the products and services listed at https://policies.google.com/terms/service-specific, including:
Many of these services also include content that you can stream or interact with.
Symbols, names and images used in commerce that are capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one individual or organisation from those of another.
Things that you create, upload, submit, store, send or share using our services, such as:
